**IMPORTANT NOTE! The visualization designer is very much not a chemistry person. All visualizations were done under the assumption that not much is different between the different antibiotics and bacterial strains (or not much is known to be different) from the data it looks like that is false, as some distinct patterns emerge.**
**Visualization Design Assignment**

  In our dataset we have for this assignment, we have data about different bacteria and their minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC), which measures bacteria effectiveness.  There's also data about whether the bacteria are Gram-positive or Gram-negative.  I will be asking questions of this dataset using the persona of a scientist, who's trying to find trends in what makes bacteria dangerous (as defined by being the most resistant to antibiotics.)

**Question 1:**  Which strain of bacteria is most resistant to the three types of antibiotics?

For this, the researcher is looking for one specific type of bacteria- the most resistant type.  The researcher wants to be able to see the different bacteria across the three types of antibiotics, and be able to tell which of the types has the highest average IMC rank across the different bacteria.  
 With this visualization, it's hard to compare different MIC levels with different antibiotics, but you can see the combined total MIC for different bacteria.  Assuming that a MIC with any of the antibiotics are comparable the combined total will show the bacteria that have the highest resistance to all three antibiotics.  It's hard to see data in this visualization about the bacteria with the lowest MIC numbers, but the researcher is not interested in that, he only has the funding the look at the dangerous bacteria.  The change in color make it easy to spot the bacteria that have higher MICs in the Neomycin and Strepomycin category, even though both of those have a much lower MIC on average in our dataset.  
  
**Question 2:**  Are the Gram-positive bacteria or the Gram-negative bacteria more resistant to Penicilin?
  
For this question, the researcher is looking for trends in different types of bacteria so they can isolate which types are most resistant to bacteria and therefore might need more research, funding, etc.  For this question, the researcher wants to be able to see only the results with Penicillin (maybe the researcher gets fundung from them, I don't know!)  That means it should be easy for him to tell the minimum inhibitory concentration for each bacteria.  The researcher is interested in which bacteria have the highest MIC as this would indicate that Penicilin was least effective against that type of bacteria.  The researcher also wants to be able to quickly see whether those bacteria that are most resistant to Penicilin are Gram-positive or Gram-negative, as that might indicate a trend.  
In this visualization, it's very hard to see much dat on the Gram-positive side as all of those bacteria has very low MICs.  This visualization clearly indicates that the Gram-negative bacteria are more dangerous, as they are part of a range that encompasses a MUCH higher average MIC.  



**Question 3:** Which type of antibiotic is the most effective (compared to the other two?) on these bacteria?
  
For this, the researcher is interested in the three different antibiotics and their results across the different bacteria.  He wants to easily see what type of antiotic is causing the lowest average MIC across all the different bacteria, as that indicates the antibiotic is effective.  This is limited, since we don't have data on cost to produce, availability of antibiotic, etc. so we don't know if there are other contstraints.  
In this visualization, the relationship between the different antibiotics is more clear.  The researcher can discern the data points that have a high MIC with one of the antibiotic categories, and a line connects that data point and it's MIC in the other categories.  This makes the relationship between the different antibiotics and which are most consistent in their treatment across ALL the bacteria- the researcher can see that Penicilin, with a wide range of MICS might be more effective on some bacteria and less effective on others, while something like Strepomycin that is more even accross the board might have properties that make it more effective with all bacteria.  